---
title: The Invitation
layout: mypost
---
Most of us spend our lives without intention, without articulating what it is
that we really want. Somehow, we acquire our life's script from society and
believe that it's what we want. Even those of us who chafe against these
pressures often feel like we have no choice but to conform. Very few of us are
courageous enough to name what we want and to go after it.

If you're in the minority that is living life intentionally, then congratulations. Setting a clear intention is the first step
in seeing it come to fruition.

But what is the second step?

Most people would say that the second step is to start working towards the
goal. They desire something, then they break down their goal into 'actionable
steps' and then they take those steps.

If our goal is to see one kilogram of matter moved from one place to another, we
have to go to where it is, pick it up and move it. It's so obvious. And over the
course of our childhood, society and institutions have trained us that reward is
always in exact proportion to effort. And then we break out of the protective
embrace of childhood and find that the world is not so simple. That anything is
possible, with all the good and the bad that it entails.

When our desires become bigger than the capacity of our institutions to provide
in a predictable manner, we have to learn to work with the Universe. And this is
where the attitude of confrontation fails us. The forces of the universe cannot
be overpowered or coerced by humans. 


The Universe *is* indeed a wish-fulfillment machine. But the mechanism for this
is not well-known at all. When we wish for something we have to invite it into
our lives.


## The Invitation

The idea is simple. You have a goal. You have a task list. You have a plan. And
now instead of treating reality as an adversary to be overcome, you treat your
desired future as a loved one, who is to be invited into your life.

Do you feel the difference in the two energies? The energy of the hustle is one
of taking something that doesn't want to be given willingly, of subterfuge and
trickery even. Young men will recognise this same energy in their early fumbling
attempts at romance -- the idea that what they want has to be somehow stolen
from an unwilling counterparty is how most men start their romantic lives. It is
only much later that we realise that women want to relate as well, they also
want to flirt and play and be wooed, not stolen. And when we learn to invite
them properly, what wonders we find!

Women readers might be baffled by this but now you can explain all that odd
behaviour young men engage in. 

It is the same with your desires. The universe wants to play and flirt and be in
loving relationship with you and it is entirely baffled why you would be so
rude, so serious, so joyless as you go about the task of living.

### What does the invitation look like?

I can best illustrate this with some examples.

A few weeks ago is went to visit a friend and his team at their office. It was a
basic office in a co-working space. Nothing really the matter with it. We talked
about his business and so on and then he said -- Sid, I want to hire better
people. What should I do?

My answer - get your own office.

Why? Because this co-working space does not reflect your personality. When you
want to invite your new team in, where are you inviting them? In this co-working
space, you cannot even keep books lying around, put up posters or add anything
like a personality to the space. Then why will anyone want to work here? The
first step to inviting the team in is to build a space where they would be happy
to come. And when you commit to the lease, in your mind you have burned the
boats that will allow you to back out of your course of action. And when you
build that space of your own, a shrine to work, set up with attention to detail
and optimised for knowledge work with a library, great tooling, coffee and so
on, then you will see how everyone who enters there will feel your
vibration. And as you go about setting up the place you will always have in your
mind the images of the future with you and the best team ever.

And this subtle self-hypnosis will lead you to those people. When you make the
invitation, you prepare yourself to go out and find the thing you're inviting
in. It is already there. Waiting for you. It is you who has to change, not the
material world.

*Another example*

A lot of young people say that they don't know what they want to do in life. I
ask them 'well, what is it that you want?'. Usually they say that they don't
know. I tell them to find out and they ask 'How?'.

It's simple I say. You have to invite that truth in. How? By making a place for
it in your life. The surface level answer is that you journal every day, but it
is not the journaling that is important. It is the invitation. It is entirely
possible to journal from a place of resistance and never have your Truth accept
your invitation. But if you sit down and invite your Truth in sincerely, by
making a specific time and place for journalling, by being consistent in your
habit, by being humble in your ask, then one day your Truth will acquiesce and
it will shoot out of you in a torrent of words, words running on the page from
the tears that flow from your eyes as you finally recognise who you are.

## The Power

The power of the invitation is very simple. When one invites a guest into one's
house, it comes from a place of love, not from a place of lack. We want to
experience their company and a time of joy with them. We want to serve them and
keep them comfortable that the time spent may be even more pleasant. We take
trouble over the food we will serve and the entertainments of the
evening. That's what an invitation feels like. Who can resist such an
invitation?

And yet when it comes to our goals we do it either from a place of frustration,
lack or anger, or alternatively from a place of indolence and wishful
thinking. Neither of these has the correct energy for achieving the goal.

In the end, all achievements are a matter of luck. And the longer we can work
towards the goal, the more lucky we can hope to be. And the energy of invitation
makes it a pleasure to work on the goal. As we wait for the guests we make small
adjustments to the seating arrangements, review the music playlist, taste the
soup once again. They are late, no problem. This gives us time to put up the
nice lights.

You get the point? The energy of the invitation is quite special.

## Prayer

There is a reason we have Gods for everything. And prayer is the ultimate
invitation. All prayer is an invitation to the God to bless us. An invitation to
Laxmi. An invitation to Saraswati. And so on.

Live your life as a prayer, as an invitation to the Universe to bless you. 




